Far Thithwef is the first of the island-region languages. It has spread quite far, covering more distance than many languages. The Thithwef culture, predominantly human, is known for exploration and colonization, although most of their colonization has occupied in uninhabited lands. They are not an Imperial culture, though their proximity to the sea gives piracy some popularity among them. In recent times they have emphasized sea trade, and their ships are the most advanced on the continent. THough rarely aggressive, they have learned naval technology as a result of skirmishes with enemy raids, as well as to protect from piracy.

The Thithwef language has a very remarkable character. Its basic grammar reflects the deep faith and belief (I would say superstitious-ness, but often it is extremely well founded in fact) of the Thithwef peoples. 

Overview
    Word orders
        VSO
        PO
        NA
        NG
        NR
    Stress
        Stress rule (first syllable)
    Articles
        Distinguishes non-specific and specific indefinite
        definite not present as it is in English
    Nouns
        Class (wide and narrow)
        Case:
            common (most things) (blank marking)
            praise (used for ACTORs in ACTOR expressions, and to address people / beings whom one reveres or loves greatly) (prefix marking)
    Number
        Singular assumed for narrow Nouns
        Plural assumed for wide nouns
    Verbs
        Tense placement is always by auxiliary Verbs
        TAM combos
            present habitual
            present
            near past habitual
            far past habitual
            near past
            far past
            subjunctive
        Inflections
            Fusional

Unique features
    Words / ideas it lacks (rel. to English)
        exceed (prefers ACTOR O than X in Y))
        belief (speak ACTOR O)
        sudden (flood(the verb) S action)
        inspire (given ACTOR's grace)
        yes (with ACTOR's will)
        attempt (try S O with ACTOR's sight)
        so-called (ACTOR prefix to person, used to criticize them for arrogance and taking a name the should not have)
        must and need (demand ACTOR that ... )
        want (uses same verb as pray)
        have / know (give ACTOR O IO)
        found out (must declare method of finding out (learned I, saw I, heard I, etc))
        attitude (all emotional states are 'Feel S O')
        alter (change ACTOR O through me)
    Words / ideas it distinguishes to a greater degree (rel. to English)
        lifetime (body-life, soul-life, name-life (memory of your actions))
        birth (self-birth (as of gods), birth-by-others, re-birth)
        land (native-land, foreign-land, familial)
        course (self-course, ACTOR-given-course)
        night (omen-night (night after death of a person), new-night (just after full moon), (safe) night)
        sea (calm-sea, turbulent-sea, holy-sea (where a Word of Power is believed to have been spoken) cursed-sea)
        storm (named for its main danger: wind-storm, rain-storm, lightning-storm, fog-storm)